# An examination of the stochastic distribution of spatial accessibility to intensive care unit (ICU) beds during the COVID-19 pandemic: a case study of the Greater Houston area of Texas

### Abstract
Not only sufficiency but also reliability of healthcare access are closely related to the medical condition of people. Hence, investigating the uncertainty embedded in the temporal changes of inputs would be beneficial to understand their impact on spatial accessibility. However, previous studies are limited to implementing only the uncertainty of mobility, while healthcare resource availability is a significant concern during the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic. Our study examined the stochastic distribution of spatial accessibility under the uncertainties underlying the availability of intensive care unit (ICU) beds and ease of mobility in the Greater Houston area of Texas. Based on the randomized supply and mobility from their historical changes, we employed Monte-Carlo simulation to measure ICU bed accessibility with an enhanced two-step floating catchment area (E2SFCA) method. We then conducted hierarchical clustering to classify regions of adequate (sufficient and reliable) accessibility and inadequate (insufficient and unreliable) accessibility. Lastly, we investigated the relationship between the accessibility measures and the case fatality ratio of COVID-19. As result, locations of sufficient access also had reliable accessibility; downtown and outer counties respectively had adequate and inadequate accessibility. We also uncovered that a higher fatality ratio of peripheral counties might be attributed to their inadequate accessibility. 
